- [Instructor] H+ Sport has been pushing the envelope
in setting up and trying these various
Java application servers.
The excitement around Payara
and its long history in GlassFish
only add to the interest of installing
and configuring Payara for H+ Sport
during its flagship web application.
Let's get started and download Payara
from https://www.payara.fish/
software/downloads/all-downloads.
This page displays multiple versions available.
You'll find here the micro editions
which are designed for use in microservices.
You'll find the embedded versions
and the multi-lingual versions.
The multi-lingual, the embedded,
and the regular Payara server come in two varieties
and you can see that here, the full and the web profile.
We've covered what these two types are,
the web and the full profile in previous videos
with WebLogic and WildFly.
And Payara is no different.
For our purposes,
we'll be downloading the full server version at the top.
Another interesting feature concerning Payara and GlassFish
is that it currently only works on JDK 8.
Yup, you guessed it.
If you don't have JDK 8 installed,
you'll need to do this now before we can continue.
Hopefully, this will be remedied in the near future.
With JDK 8 installed, let's switch to our home directory
and we're going to copy the download
to our home directory.
Make sure you type that dot there and hit Enter.
Next, we're going to unzip
and this will create a Payara5 directory.
CD in to that directory.
And we're going to type bin/asadmin start-domain
and hit Enter.
Asadmin is the primary CLI methodology
for making changes to Payara or GlassFish
so we should see a few logging statements here.
As we're waiting for it to start,
let's copy this line here
server log
and we're going to open a new window
and tail this log.
This way we can see what is happening in the logs
as we move forward.
Next, we're going to go to our browser again,
open a new tab,
we'll type HTTP://localhost:4848
and hit Enter.
This will open the default administrative console.
You'll notice this page says
status the admin console is loading please wait.
After it finishes, it takes us to the console
and note that no username and password was requested.
This is because the default credentials
have not been changed yet.
We'll get to that in the next section.
The last couple things I want to show you
are back on the terminal window.
You'll notice that when we typed bin/asadmin start-domain,
the next line says waiting for domain1 to start.
Domain1 is the default domain that is started
using the asadmin start-domain.
If we wanted a different domain to start,
we would have to specify that here
with asadmin start-domain domain2
or whatever the domain is called.
We'll create a different domain later on
and demonstrate this.
Let's go ahead and stop the domain
and then we'll start it again
with the bin/asadmin start-domain domain1 to demonstrate.
To stop Payara, we'll type bin/asadmin stop-domain
and I'm going to go ahead and add our default domain here
and that will kill the process running in the background
for the domain.
If we look at our logs,
it'll show us that we have basically stopped this domain.
So let's start it back up again.
We'll type this time
bin/asadmin start-domain
and specify our default domain.
And as we can see,
it's starting back up just like we expected.